Comments on the revised paper

The paper is still not ready. There is definite improvement: Some, but not all,
of the scientific problems have been addressed.  The writing is still quite poor.

I've added some more comments, but the theme is very much the same as the last
report. I won't address all the issues.

General

    You are still claiming "significance" in some of the sections, without any
    statistical analysis.  As I said in my first review, this goes against
    strong conventions.  Similarly, there is still a trend to claim
    "discrepancy" between predictions and your measurements without doing any
    analysis at all.  Discrepant by how many sigma?  If you insist on making
    such a statement, but refuse to do any analysis, then you have no choice
    but to make it very clear you did no analysis.  You might say that you
    *think* you see something by eye. This way, the reader can safely disregard
    your claim.

    In a number of places you still refer the "redshift distribution" when you
    mean "lensing efficiency as a function of redshift".  Please alter these
    statements.

    You often interchange the words "likelihood" and "probability". These two
    words have different meanings in the context of statistics.  I certainly
    hope you are *not* summing likelihoods, but posterior probabilities. Please
    go through the text and make sure you are saying exactly what you mean.

    You are still making lots of statements like "bias describes" and
    "technique performs".  These are not sentient beings, they cannot describe
    or perform.  Please purge the text of this sort of thing.

    The text is still poor.  If it were only grammar, I might expect the
    editors to help fix the problems.  But there are lot of incongruent and
    even nonsensical statements.  There are statements where I think you don't
    mean what you say.  With my experience I *think* I know what you really
    mean after really thinking on it, but this will certainly lead to a lot
    confusion.  I have previously addressed many of the problems, so I don't
    want to repeat myself.   See some of my example notes below and look again
    at my notes from last time, but remember I will only address a few examples
    of the problems.
    
    The paper *does* still have a large number of grammatical errors.   The
    editors may help with some of them if we get that far, but it will shorten
    the entire process if you just look it over carefully.  

Abstract

    "Galaxy bias describes..."  Galaxy bias is not sentient, it cannot describe
    anything.  Galaxy bias is a concept used by scientists to facilitate the
    interpretation of measurements.  Scientists relate the concept of bias to
    the theory of structure formation because they think bias may be the result
    of processes that occur during structure formation.

    "We investigate the linear bias model and its stochasticity..."  The model
    is not stochastic or it wouldn't be very useful.  The underlying process
    may be stochastic, and the model has been developed with that in mind.

    "We attribute this to the transition..."  It's up to you, but I think it
    would informative to state in the abstract why you expected this.
 
2.2

    You say "intrinsic ellipticity distribution" in your reply to me, but in
    the text you just say "ellipticity distribution". The latter would mean the
    distribution of observed ellipticities, which would include the measurement
    error. Considering you fit for sigma as a function of the magnitude, which
    would include the error unless you somehow remove it, I expect the latter
    what you really mean.  Which one is the typo?
    
    Please explain why there is an additional 0.1 softening if you are
    already including the intrinsic ellipticity.

2.3.1

    "Bias measures..."  Again, bias cannot do anything.  The very next sentence
    has the same problem, techniques don't perform.

    "The lensing efficiency tells us the redshift distribution of the
    structures that most efficiently perturb"  That's still not correct.  It is
    a calculation of a physical quantity as a function of the redshifts of
    lenses and sources and cosmological parameters, and the peak in redshift
    indicates a condition of highest ``efficiency''. It doesn't tell you the
    redshift distribution of the structures that are most efficient, that is a
    very different statement.  The caption for Figure 1 reads in a similar way.

    "three first" -> "first three"

    "The Limber approximation breaks down at small scales for narrow redshift
    bins." and "We adjust the limits of each bin so that we reach 10%
    inaccuracy at 100 arc-minutes, i.e.  twice the largest scale at which we
    compute the correlation functions."  If you are worried about inaccuracy
    on small scales, why do you check the accuracy at scales twice as large as
    those you measure? Maybe this is just at typo or mis-wording.

    "we compute the redshift distribution of the foreground and background
    redshift bins" You compute the redshift distribution of galaxies that fall
    in the foreground and background redshift bins.

    "Second, we must emphasize that the redshift distributions we obtain are
    simply weighting functions." In this paragraph you need to be more careful
    about your language.  In the previous paragraphs you are talking about the
    redshift distributions of the sources and foreground galaxies, but here you
    are talking about the redshift distribution of all the material along the
    line of sight to sources, and how you use the z distributions for the
    sources to interpret the shear and angular scales in terms of such matter
    at some distance and a mixing of physical scales.  But you never make it
    clear you are talking about that. Please be more careful to separate the
    concepts.

3

    "Due to its effect on the images of the distant galaxies, gravitational
    lensing is a direct probe of the matter density field projected along the
    line of sight."  This is just an incongruous sentence; the first half does
    not connect to the second.  You skipped at least two logical steps in
    there.  

    "East-west" that depends on your telescope and instrument orientation, or
    arbitrary choice of coordinate system.

    "In Schneider et al. the convergence is integrated"  -> "Schneider et al. introduce
    the statistic M_{ap} defined as "

3.1

    "weighted by the redshift distribution" -> "weighted by the efficiency"

3.2
    "redshift distributions for N^2... are different" -> "efficiency for N^2"

3.3 

    "Because we work in angular scales" -> "Because we make measurements in
    bins of angular separation rather than physical separation" or something
    like that.

4

    In your response you sent a figure and claim that the summed likelihood is
    "by far the best match", but again there is no statistic to back this up.
    You may be right, but this is not helpful.  Why did send me this figure but
    not include it in the text?  You also have to convince the community, not
    just me.  And why do you include no analysis?

5.1

    galaxy clustering

        p1 "Figure 5 shows" -> "In Figure 5 we show"
        p2 "Error bars include shot noise" -> "We included shot noise in the error bars"
           "errors get smaller" -> "we calculate smaller errors"

            "we observe significant deviations" Prove it with statistics or don't
            say significant.

            Please explain how you computed the IC.
    
    galaxy-galaxy lensing

        Again, don't claim discrepancy between predictions and measurements
        without doing statistics that compare the predicted signal with your
        measurements.
 
5.2

    "Galaxy clustering is expected..." You still have not been careful with
    your wording here.  Please see my comment from my first report
    and address my point.

    "...rotating the background galaxies by 40 degrees" -> You can't rotate the
    galaxies.  You mean "...projecting the galaxy ellipticities along a
    coordinate system rotated 45 degrees to tangential"  or something like that.

    mass-aperture variance: It is good to see the chi squared test.  Please
    apply it to quantify the discrepancies you claim above.

5.3.1

    Yes, you have ruled out a constant bias with redshift and scale, but you
    did not isolate the redshift dependence or scale dependence yet, so
    interpretation of the reduced chi squared is complicated.  I know you
    address this later, but you should say something along those lines.

5.3.3

    You say "does not significantly rule it out". You should quantify this by
    quoting the probability of chi squared exceeding what you calculated.  In
    this case of nu=27 and chisq=43 it is about 0.026 if I calculated
    correctly.

5.4

    "Our stellar mass selected samples should therefore tell us more about
    galaxy properties." Do you mean halo properties?

    I don't understand this sentence: "The errors are the square root of the
    averaged total covariance coefficients of the fitted points."

    "Overall, all our measurements agree with an increase of bias with red-
    shift."  The word "agree" only has meaning in science if you measure some
    kind of statistic and then define agreement in terms of the value of that
    statistic.  Please do the statistics.

    "We found bias in bin F3-B3 for the high stellar-mass galaxy sample to be
    larger than expected."  The most relevant statement in this paragraph is
    the following "...this data point still agrees with the bias model
    predictions at 95% confidence level".  By definition 1 in 20 points will
    deviate by this amount from pure statistics. You have 10 or 17 points on
    that plot, depending on how you count.  Now what can you say?


5.4.2

    "Second, the positive slope of the decrement below RTD is significantly
    detected with alpha1 = 0.42+0.32 and alpha1 = −0.21 0.63 ± 0.18 for the low
    and high stellar-mass samples, respectively." I don't fully understand
    this sentence, what is significantly detected?


    1) "To conclude, we find the bias decreases at intermediate scale..."  This
    is a contradiction of your previous statement: 2) "we showed that a
    scale-dependent bias model was preferred but still not significantly
    better".  You need qualifiers on statement 1) to demonstrate what you
    objectively *calculated*.

5.5

    "In light of a new galaxy-halo model proposed by Neyrinck et al. (2005), we
    identify " do you mean you "attempt to identify"?

    Again, you should quote the probability of chi squared exceeding what you
    have calculated so the reader can understand the significance.
   
    "at large scales (k → 0), r ≃ 1 because galaxies in different halos are
    good tracers of the halos themselves and the underlying matter
    distribution.  "  What I understand of this sentence is a tautology, and
    the rest is poorly worded and confusing.   The very next sentence is also a
    tautology, at least partially.  
    
    This sentence "At the scale of the largest halo radius, r turns up because
    halos of different masses are more similar to each other at small scales
    than at intermediate scales" is I think conflating a lot of ideas about
    halos and correlation functions.  On intermediate scales, as you define it
    being larger than a halo, you only measure two-halo term any way. So in
    that sense the statement is wrong. 


    "Finally, r converges to 1 at about the scale of the smallest halo radius.
    It makes sense that r ≃ 1 at small scales, because then all galaxies are
    central galaxies in similar dark matter halos." This doesn't make sense to
    me.  There can be no convergence to unity on the smallest scales because on
    very small scales the galaxies must be in the *same* halo.  For similar
    reasons, they can't all be centrals on those scales.  Maybe you should
    reword this to be more a direct statement about the scales you actually
    probe rather than using general language like "converges" which implies a
    limit r->0.

6.1

    "In the simulations, we also observed that the cross-correlation signals
    ⟨N (theta)Map (theta)⟩ and ⟨gammat ⟩ decrease at large scales."  Do you
    mean they are biased low at large scales?  They are expected to decrease.

    "When outer foreground galaxies do not have galaxies all around them, the
    average ⟨gammat ⟩ might be biased low"  I'm not sure what you are referring
    to  here.    I think what you may be seeing is a lack of cancellation of
    systematics when you don't have good sampling around your lens. Normally a
    constant additive systematic will cancel between sources 90 degrees
    separated (remember 90 degrees is like 180 for real space vectors). If it
    were important you could deal with it by only using sources from adjacent
    fully visible quadrants around the lens.

7

    "an photometric" -> "a photometric"
