Purpose:

Analyze astronomical data from the Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey
(BOSS) and the Dark Energy Survey (DES) to constrain the properties of Dark
Matter and Dark Energy.  The BOSS experiment is part of the five year Sloan
Digital Sky Survey III project, and began in December 2009.  The DES is a
five-year experiment beginning in early 2011.

Approach:

DES 

The approach in DES is to use measurements of gravitational lensing effects to
constrain the properties of Dark Energy.  Erin Sheldon is a member of DES with
data rights, and in collaboration with Mike Jarvis of Penn he is leading the
lensing effort in DES.

Lensing measurements are critical to the goals of DES. The primary Dark Energy
probes used by DES are the power spectrum of mass density fluctuations in our
universe measured from gravitational lensing (cosmic shear) and the number
density of galaxy clusters as a function of their mass and cosmic time. The
masses of these clusters are also measured using gravitational lensing. Using
the combined probes, DES will constrain the equation of state parameter
w=pressure/density for Dark Energy to ~3%.

DES will see first light in 2011. In the interim, data processing pipelines and
analysis codes to measure gravitational lensing will be written. This data will
be used to calibrate the masses of the galaxy clusters used in the cosmological
analyses.  This cluster lensing work is a natural continuation of earlier work
by Erin Sheldon in the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS), which are the most
sensitive of this type to date. The processing pipelines for DES are an
extension of those used in the SDSS, as are the analysis tools used to extract
cosmological parameters. The volume and depth of DES is sufficiently large to
allow these measurements to be made in many bins of cosmic time, with which the
cosmological analysis will be extended to constrain the properties of Dark
Energy.

In contrast to cluster lensing measurements, cosmic shear is the correlation of
shears across the sky independent of the location of foreground structures.
Since the shear is related to mass, the cosmic shear can be used to directly
infer statistics of the underlying mass distribution, the evolution of which is
directly related to the properties of Dark Energy. Because the signal need not
be modeled in terms of cluster halos, the interpretation of cosmic shear can be
simpler than cluster lensing, but the measurement is more sensitive to
systematic effects.  Thus cosmic shear is quite complimentary to clusters.

The analysis and infrastructure development created for DES will also lead
naturally to work on the Large Scale Synoptic Telescope (LSST) of which ES is a
participating member.

BOSS

The primary goal of BOSS is to measure the properties of Dark Energy by
studying the baryon acoustic feature as a function of redshift, or cosmic
look-back time.  The baryon acoustic feature was caused by sounds waves
traveling in the early universe that got ``frozen'' at the time of
recombination and imprinted on the distribution of matter in the universe.
Because the physical extent of these features is fixed, studying the apparent
size of the feature as a function of time tells us about the expansion history
of the universe, and thus the properties of dark energy.  The BOSS experiment
will measure this feature in the locations of galaxies by creating a three
dimensional map of their positions.  The third dimension in this map is the
redshift, derived from spectroscopic observations of each galaxy.  In addition,
the spectra of quasars will be examined to study the distribution of gas along
the line of sight between observer and quasar, which also yields statistics
about the baryon acoustic feature.

Erin Sheldon is in charge of the target selection for the spectroscopic survey.
His role involves writing the pipeline code for selecting targets, and
coordinating and integrating target selection algorithms from the galaxy and
quasar working groups.

In addition to leading the target selection effort, Erin Sheldon will continue
his study of gravitational lensing in the SDSS data, using the new imaging and
spectroscopic data from BOSS to extend previous measurements to higher redshift.
This work will focus primarily on measuring the distribution of dark matter
in galaxies and in the universe as a whole.  It should also be possible to combine
the lensing and galaxy distribution measurements to better constrain the properties
of dark energy.

Technical Progress in FY2009 and Expected Progress FY2010:

DES

In FY 2009 software pipelines were developed to process DES simulated data.
This code can process individual images from DES as well as combine multi-epoch
data into a single best measurement for each detected astronomical object.
Completing the latter multi-epoch processing code is a major milestone in DES
lensing pipeline development, as it is required to optimally process the data.
Using computers at BNL, all of the available images were processed.  This
includes the single-epoch exposures and well as the full multi-epoch simulated
data.  The code was also delivered to the DES data management team to be used
in the the DES ``Data Challenge Five'', a challenge to process an entire season
of simulated DES data.

In FY 2010 further DES simulations will be created and tested.  These
simulations will represent a full two years of DES observations, and will have
realistic gravitational lensing effects that can be used to extract the input
cosmology.  The primary challenge for 2010 is the processing of significantly
more data and the recovery of the input cosmology. All this processing and
analysis will occur in a mode that reflects real survey activities.

BOSS

In FY 2009, Erin Sheldon successfully developed pipelines for selecting galaxy
and quasar targets for spectroscopic followup.  In August and October 2009,
targets were delivered for two commissioning runs.  These runs used preliminary
selection algorithms for galaxies and quasars, and were designed primarily as a
test phase for both the new BOSS spectrographs and the target selection
algorithms.  In December 2009 the first of the ``main'' survey targets were
delivered.  The galaxy targets use a ``final'' algorithm which should remain
unchanged throughout the survey, but the quasar algorithm remains under
development.

In FY 2010, Erin Sheldon will continue to lead the target selection.  Each
monthly observing run must still be developed separately, since efficient
tiling of the sky requires taking into account previous observations, and
adjusting missed observations for new observing conditions.  Also the quasar
target selection algorithm is a work in progress and will require persistent
work through the survey.

IN FY 2010, work will begin on lensing analyses of the SDSS data.  Erin Sheldon
will incorporate the pipeline developed for DES lensing analysis into the 
SDSS work.

Expected Progress FY 2011 and 2012

DES

Winter/Spring 2011: Process DES commissioning data as it arrives. Test
pipelines on real DES commissioning data, adjusting processing pipeline as
needed.

Summer/Fall 2011: Re-process the previous year's data with improved pipelines.
Process Fall/Winter DES data as it arrives.

Winter/Spring 2012: Process DES data as it arrives. Multiple epochs will now
exist over much of the sky, first serious testing of multi- epoch shear
pipeline on real DES data. Begin analysis of first year DES data for lensing.

Summer/Fall 2012: Finalize analysis of existing DES data, incorporating
recently processed data if it is ready. First publications from early DES data
should emerge in summer or fall 2012.

BOSS

For 2011 and 2012, the target selection work will continue as before.  It is
expected that the algorithms will stabilize, so most of the work will be small
tweaks of the code to deal with the particulars of each observing run, and
possible wholesale reprocessings to deal with algorithmic changes to the quasar
target selection code.

In 2011, the SDSS lensing analysis will continue, with the goal of publishing
first results in the Fall.  In 2012 and onward, the focus will be on refining
algorithms and incorporating feedback between the parallel processing of SDSS
and DES data.  Further publication will probably occur at the end of the survey
in 2014.
