
***  I think the thing to be careful of though is that the existence of the
other biases means that the allowed budget for noise bias alone must be a lot
less than quoted.  For Euclid the noise bias budget requires m to be of order
5e-4, substantially less than the 2e-3 assumed here - it's not a small effect.

    OK, I don't think I appreciated your emphasis on this point in my first
    reading of your report.  I've modified the text and abstract.  More below.

--------

*** I think it would be helpful also to modify the final sentence of the
abstract to take into account both this point and the one above. It shouldn't
be claimed that "the method is sufficiently unbiased for use on planned
surveys" and it should be made clear in the abstract and conclusions that only
multiplicative bias has been tested.

   I have modified the sentence and updated text in the comparison section and
   figure captions.  I don't think it is necessary to mention expanding about
   the true shear in the abstract; it is too fine and complex a point. Also,
   one can in principle use higher order equations to avoid that error.

------------


*** The point is the following.  Actually in this test (and in B&A) the shear
is the same for every galaxy, so in that case it is correct to treat each
galaxy as providing an independent estimate of that single shear value, and
under those circumstances it is correct to multiply the likelihoods.  This is
not the same as asserting that galaxies may have different shear values, and
that we are interested in the mean shear: the PDF of the sum of a set of
values is the convolution of the individual PDFs (as in the derivation of the
central limit theorem), so in this case it is not rigorously correct to
multiply the likelihoods: instead, the PDFs should be convolved together and
rescaled (to account for the fact that the mean is the sum divided by the
number of galaxies) and so this is mathematically different from multiplying
likelihoods.  The formulation of the problem (as either a truly constant
shear, or as the mean of a variable shear) makes a difference to the formal
mathematics.  This really is a point that's relevant to B&A rather than the
current paper, but I think it is worth mentioning.

Yes, I see your point.  Thanks for clarifying. I have made an extra note in
the algorithm section to emphasize this.

---------



-- 
Erin Scott Sheldon
Brookhaven National Laboratory erin dot sheldon at gmail dot com



