
Data from the Dark Energy Survey (DES) will be used to constrain the properties
of Dark Energy.  The primary focus will be on measuring gravitational lensing
effects to probe the expansion history and growth rate of massive structures in
our universe.  

Dark Energy accelerates the expansion of the universe, dramatically increasing
the volume in comparison to a matter-only universe.  Dark Energy also inhibits
the growth of massive structures under gravitational collapse.  Thus the number
density of massive objects such as galaxy clusters as a function of cosmic time
is directly related to the properties of Dark Energy, in particular the
equation of state parameter w=pressure/density.  Critical to using the number
density to constrain cosmology is the masses of the clusters, which we will
measure using gravitational lensing effects in DES data.  Using cluster counts,
lensing and other complimentary probes, the DES will measure w to about 3%.

DES will see first light in 2011.  The intervening time will be spent
developing data reduction pipelines and realistic simulations to test these
pipelines.  After first light, DES will take data for five years, during which
the data will be processed as it arrives and analyses performed to extract Dark
Energy parameters.  

Erin Sheldon is a member of DES with data rights, and in collaboration with
Mike Jarvis of Penn he is leading the lensing effort in DES.

Lensing measurements are critical to the goals of DES.  The primary Dark Energy
probes used by DES are the power spectrum of mass density fluctuations in our
universe measured from gravitational lensing (cosmic shear) and the number
density of galaxy clusters as a function of their mass and cosmic time.  The
masses of these clusters are also measured using gravitational lensing.  Using
the combined probes, DES will constrain the equation of state parameter
w=pressure/density for Dark Energy to ~3%.

DES will see first light in 2011.  In the interim, data processing pipelines
and analysis codes to measure gravitational lensing will be written.  This data
will be used to calibrate the masses of the galaxy clusters used in the
cosmological analyses.

This cluster lensing work is a natural continuation of earlier work by Erin
Sheldon in the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS), which are the most sensitive of
this type to date.  The processing pipelines for DES are an extension of those
used in the SDSS, as are the analysis tools used to extract cosmological
parameters.  The volume and depth of DES is sufficiently large to allow these
measurements to be made in many bins of cosmic time, with which the
cosmological analysis will be extended to constrain the properties of Dark
Energy.

In contrast to cluster lensing measurements, cosmic shear is the correlation of
shears across the sky independent of the location of foreground structures.
Since the shear is related to mass, the cosmic shear can be used to directly
infer statistics of the underlying mass distribution, the evolution of which is
directly related to the properties of Dark Energy.  Because the signal need not
be modeled in terms of cluster halos, the interpretation of cosmic shear can be
simpler than cluster lensing, but the measurement is more sensitive to
systematic effects. Thus cosmic shear is quite complimentary to clusters.  

The analysis and infrastructure development created for DES will also lead
naturally to work on the Large Scale Synoptic Telescope (LSST) of which ES is a
participating member.

This work will be in collaboration with a postdoc Zhaoming Ma who is joining
BNL in Fall 2009, as well as Mike Jarvis and Bhuvnesh Jain from the University
of Pennsylvania, not supported by this proposal.  Erin Sheldon and Zhaoming Ma
will be be supported at 100% by this proposal.  

