Comments on the revised paper

The paper is still not ready. Most, but not all, of the scientific problems
have been addressed.  The writing is still quite poor.

    You are still making lots of statements like "bias describes" and
    "technique peforms".  These are not sentient beings, they cannot describe
    or perform.  Please purge the text of this sort of thing.

    You often interchange the words "likelihood" and "probability". These two
    words have different meanings in the context of statistics.  Please go
    through the text and make sure you are saying what you mean.

    The text is still poor.  If it were only grammar, I might expect the
    editors to help fix the problems.  But there are just a lot of nonsensical
    statements.  There are statements where I think you don't mean what you
    say.  With my experience I think I know what you really mean, this leads to
    confusion.  I will assume for now that you know what you are talking about
    but just have trouble writing the English.  I have already addressed many
    of these remaining problems, so I don't want to repeat myself.   So see my
    notes below and look again at my notes from last time, and have a
    proficient English speaker, and expert on lensing, go through the text in
    detail.  I suspect there are members of your author list that meet these
    qualifications.  I will address a few of the problems below, but not all.
    
    The paper *does* still has a large number of grammatical errors.   The
    editors may  help with some of this if we get that far, but it will shorten
    the entire process if you just look it over carefully.  

Abstract

    "Galaxy bias describes..."  Galaxy bias is not sentient, it cannot describe
    anything.  Galaxy bias is a concept used by scientists to facilitate the
    interpretation of measurements.  Scientists relate the concept of bias to
    the theory of structure formation because they think bias may be the result
    of processes that occur during structure formation.

    "We investigate the linear bias model and its stochasticity..."  The model
    is not stochastic or it wouldn't be very useful.  The underlying process
    may be stochastic, and the model has been developed with that in mind.

    "We attribute this to the transition..."  It's up to you, but I think it
    would informative to state in the abstract why you expected this.
 
2.2

    You say "intrinsic ellipticity distribution" in your reply to me, but in
    the text you just say "ellipticity distribution". The latter would mean the
    distribution of observed ellipticities, which would include the measurement
    error. Considering you fit for sigma as a function of the magnitude, which
    would include the error unless you somehow remove it, the latter seems
    like what you really mean.  Which one is the typo?
    
    Please explain why there is an 0.1 softening.

2.3.1

    "Bias measures..."  Again, bias cannot do anything.  The very next sentence
    has the same problem, techniques don't perform.

    "The lensing efficiency tells us the redshift distribution of the
    structures that most efficiently perturb"  That's still not correct.  It is
    a calculation of a physical quantity as a function of the redshifts of
    lenses and sources and cosmological parameters, and the peak in redshift
    indicates condition of highest ``efficiency''. It doesn't tell you the
    redshift distribution of the structures that are most efficient, that is a
    very different statement.  The caption for Figure 1 reads in a similar way.

    "three first" -> "first three"

    "The Limber approximation breaks down at small scales for narrow redshift
    bins." and "We adjust the limits of each bin so that we reach 10%
    inaccuracy at 100 arc-minutes, i.e.  twice the largest scale at which we
    compute the correla- tion functions."  If you are worried about inaccuracy
    on small scales, why do you check the accuracy at scales twice as large as
    those you measure? Maybe this is just at typo or mis-wording.

    "we compute the redshift distribution of the foreground and background
    redshift bins" You compute the redshift distribution of galaxies that fall
    in the foreground and background redshift bins.

    "Second, we must emphasize that the redshift distribu- tions we obtain are
    simply weighting functions." In this paragraph you need to be more careful
    about your language.  In the previous paragraphs you are talking about the
    redshift distributions of the sources and foreground galaxies, but here you
    are talking about the redshift distribution of all the material along the
    line of sight to sources, and how you use the z distributions for the
    sources to interpret the shear and angular scales in terms of such matter
    at some distance and a mixing of physical scales.  Please be more careful
    to separate the concepts.

3

    "Due to its effect on the images of the distant galax- ies, gravitational
    lensing is a direct probe of the matter density field projected along the
    line of sight."  This is just an incongruous sentence; the first half does
    not connect to the second.  You skipped at least two logical steps in
    there.  

    "East-west" that depends on your telescope and instrument orientation, or
    arbitrary choice of coordinate system.
