Overall Comments

    This is an interesting topic, worthy of study with the current sample in
    extension of earlier works.  But this paper is not ready for acceptance.

    Parts of the text are very poorly written, for example the introduction.
    Other parts are much better, perhaps due to multiple authors working on
    different sections.  Even without regard to the scientific results, the
    paper does not, as a whole, meet the standards for writing that I would
    expect of a journal publication.  I'm not going to detail the writing
    problems as that is not my responsibility.  I will instead say that a
    significant reworking of the entire text should be undertaken to bring all
    parts of the document to an acceptable quality.

    Also, the presentation and analysis is sloppy.  Often the authors use
    off-the-cuff remarks about physical interpretation of the results that are
    not backed up by statistical analysis.  The authors in a number of places
    use of phrases like "significant deviation" with no accompanying
    statistical analysis. In many of these cases such a statement would require
    careful analysis, and indeed in some cases significant original research,
    to prove.

    Please see the following comments and questions by section.

Abstract

    You claim *exhaustive* in redshift, stellar mass, and scale but this is not
    the case.  You are only 80% complete in stellar mass, you are using a
    magnitude limited sample of galaxies, you are using a limited and not
    precisely understood redshift range, and you are working on limited and
    mixed physical scales.  This is precisely not exhaustive.

Introduction

    weight function in equation 1, you say sigma_i is the width of the
    ellipticity distribution but you mean the error distribution.

2.3 

    This section mixes up the idea of catalog selection and photoz methodology.
    I think separating these could improve clarity.


    For your "redshift bins" it seems you are essentially demanding that
    objects have zmin < z < zmax with some probability, and then you sum the
    p(z) of those objects.  What you actually have is p(z|m) where m are the
    independent variables (magnitudes).  So what you essentially demand is:

        integral(p(z|m), zmin, zmax) > p0. 

    (not exactly since your p(z) are not gaussian and you are using "sigma")
    This seems to be a reasonable approach; I restate it here in order to
    clarify my question below about the foreground galaxy sample.



    You say it is the redshift distribution of the foreground material, but
    this isn't exactly correct. It is the effective weight.  The *effective*
    redshift distribution of the material would be the actual redshift
    distribution multiplied by this weight in redshift space.  Your statement
    is only accurate if the distribution of material is uniform in redshift
    space.

    How did you choose the objects in the foreground lens sample?  You say you
    "obtain" them and then give exact ranges, whereas you only have probability
    distributions; did you perform straight cuts on the some reduced statistics
    of the p(z), or do you apply the probabilistic cuts as for the source bins? 

    "redshift of the lensing efficiency" has no clear meaning to me. It is a
    function.  What are you trying to say?  Are you talking about bias in the
    photozs?

    paragraph 5: what S/N cut is I814 < 26.5?  If that is the completeness
    limit, why are you choosing foreground objects at the completeness limit?
    This will result in near perfect overlap between the lens and source
    samples.  Have I misunderstood?


3

    "The second order derivatives are the convergence" you mean the sum of
    phixx and phiyy is kappa, etc.  Please be careful and accurate with your
    language for the sake of those readers who are not experts. If you are
    going to talk about it, you should probably just give the equations.
    Otherwise eq 4 and 5 are sufficient.

3.1

    "almost work in Fourier space" is not a meaningful statement.  There is a
    lot of information *behind* your statement, such as independence of modes
    in Fourier space for certain kinds of measurements under certain
    conditions.  Better to just say exactly what you mean.

3.2

    The text of this section if very poorly written.  Please rework this
    section carefully.

    Please explain in the main text how the f1 and f2 are measured, and how
    this measurement is different from the similar terms in equations 15 and
    16.  The only details I found were in figure 2.

4.

    Your error bars seem to be monotonically increasing with scale.  This
    means you need state explicitly in the text and figures at what
    effective scale you measure b.  For example in figure 13.


    You can also use these mocks to test your treatment of photozs.  Have you
    tested that you can recover the true lensing quantities given photozs with
    realistic expected statistical properties?

5.1

    - General

        About the plots in this section: the x axis says "aperture scale" but
        correlation functions are measured in radial bins not apertures.
        Aperture implies the statistic is measured using all the data interior
        to the aperture scale. The axis label should reflect this.

        It concerns me that you use the median statistic.  In general the mean is
        preferred because that is what is *predicted* by the theory.  E.g. you say
        it will *bias* the b and r, but the theory, in predicting b and r, must
        average over the same distributions.  The theory does not have shape noise
        but the other sources of variance are included.

        It would be good to know how this choice impacts comparison with the
        predictions.

    - galaxy-clustering

        Figure 5: please describe more clearly which line is which in the caption.
        It is ambiguous.

        Please explain to those who may not know why deviation from Smith et
        al. implies scale dependent bias.

    - galaxy-galaxy lensing
        
        You may also have additive systematics; this will affect the signal
        more at large scales.

    - shear autocorrelation

        I think it's unwise to suggest B1 is high relative to smith et al, as
        it appears to be consistent with zero.  If this is not the case, I
        suggest increasing the range of the y axis to show detection and to
        perform a statistical analysis instead of saying it "seems to be
        larger".

5.2

    - galaxy-aperture variance

        Galaxies are expected to be more clustered, meaning higher amplitude in
        3D, at low redshifts. But the slope averaged over small to intermediate
        scales depends *strongly* on other factors, such as galaxy type.
        Please be careful with your wording here.

        The paragraph beginning with "On the other hand.." is very poorly
        written.

    - galaxy-mass aperture

        B modes are *expected* to affect N*M differently than M^2, and the
        measurements have very different S/N.

        second paragraph: I think you have a mistake in your wording or have a
        misconception about how the filter works.  Please clarify what you mean
        by "cleaner".  

        "We also note a clear change of slope in .." I think you are trying to
        say you see a different slope at large and small scales.  Also, please
        don't use weasel words like "clear".  If you want to tell the reader
        that something is unambiguously in the data, you should do it my making
        a measurement of the slopes, or fitting a single power law and showing
        that it does not describe the data. The covariance in your data makes
        chi-by-eye tricky.  Otherwise just say that you see it by eye, which is
        I think enough to indicate that it is merely your judgement and not the
        result of analysis.  (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weasel_word).
   
    - mass aperture 

        You again make non-statistical claims: "In spite of large errors for B1
        and B2, we note that mean values closely follow the predicted signal."
        The only meaningful thing you can do is to form a hypothesis, test it
        against the data, and report the results.  Your statement does not add
        any information for the reader, but speaks with authority of your
        *opinion* of what you see.

5.3

    it is fine to say "we observe" a down turn if you also clarify that this is
    your opinion, but it is not fine to say it is *significant* without
    performing a statistical analysis.    There is a strong convention that
    "significant" means some number of "standard deviations" of the data from a
    null hypothesis, typically more than 3.  I am aware that "standard
    deviation" must also be defined, but once it is, then the convention is to
    require a number of such deviations before claiming significance.

    The following topic of discussion in this section is an interesting one,
    but it is of little utility if you don't perform any analysis.

5.4

    - paragraph 2
    
        When you say you average the points taking into account the
        correlations, do you mean me fit a constant over that range of scales,
        using the full covariance matrix in the fit?  Please explain.

        By "matches" Sheth et al., I think you mean "is similar to".  You
        would need to test a continuous range of masses to find the match.

   - paragraph 3
        
        You expect two sigma results in 5% of such measurements.  You would
        need many more independent samples with such deviation before this
        become a concern.  This is the reason behind the convention that
        "significant" means 3 or more standard deviations.

5.5

    - paragraph 1

        You should probably say you "show" in the figure.  Also, the statement
        that this method is known to produce significant deviations from 1 is
        misleading.   In applying this method to a particular data set certain
        investigators found r different from 1.

    - paragraph 2

        Again you say that the data in F1 and F2, figure 14, "show a small dip"
        but you have not quantified that statement.  Please do so.  I can't do
        an analysis based on the plot, but in my opinion such a statement
        requires statistical exploration.  This is especially true given the
        correlations between points.

        "galaxies start to correlate with their halo density".  I find this
        statement confusing, and not in accordance with my reading of Neyrinck
        et al. paper.  Please clarify.

5.6
    - paragraph 1

        "variance of the .. becomes negative".  Variances are positive
        definite by definition.   Please clarify.

    - paragraph 2

        This paragraph is in direct contradiction to your earlier discussion of
        figure 11, where you say the deviations are significant, although
        without any actual statistical analysis to back it up.

        Also, correlation between points does not mean what you imply.  It does
        not mean that the measurements can not deviate.  It means that their
        errors are correlated, and this effectively smooths the curve but does
        not mean that it must be flat.

6.1

    - paragraph 3

        I don't understand the argument.  A source is in fact used many times,
        this is not unexpected.  It is just the nature of correlation
        functions.  Please clarify.


6.2

    It seems to me that this comes down to how accurate are your estimated
    redshift distributions.   
    
    If these are known perfectly then you will have no bias; all the equations
    are correct and integrating over the right distributions should not cause a
    problem.  Are you just trying to understand how an incorrect estimate of
    N(z) produces an incorrect estimate of f1,f2?  This may be a genuine
    misunderstanding on my part.
    
 

7 Conclusion

    Much of you discussion here I have addressed earlier on.  But I want to
    point out that you again say "significant scale-dependence" but this has
    not been quantified.

    Your discussion of the inefficacy of future surveys, while plausible, is
    not backed up by any numbers or calculations.  Please quantify such
    statements.
